hey guys busted out the special shirt
for this video
sarcastic me let never I made you a
little bit of joking around this video
but it's a very sincere video about a
very serious topic I'm talking about in
cells people living in involuntary
celibacy and specifically those who hate
and resent this state of involuntary
celibacy recently in Canada we had one
young man who apparently to all news
reports and based on a Facebook post he
was part of this subculture and this
system of sentiments took him so far in
a sense of resentment against society
that he carried out what I think could
be fairly called a terrorist attack
against random people on the street
people who he reviled as Chad's and
Stacey's disparaging terms that people
within the N cell subculture used for
those who succeed within the set of
rules that they perceive our society as
as a game being played by every single
video I've seen on this topic whether it
was from mainstream broadcast news
sitting down an interviewing
professional psychologist over - made
for YouTube pundits people like sargon
of akkad every single video and
everything a single source have seen on
the subject I think profoundly and
utterly misses the point and that's why
I'm making this video speaking to you
now the problem within cells is not
celibacy it's jealousy and jealousy is a
problem that cannot be solved by the
suggestions these people make they're
completely well-intentioned but they are
in no way salient to the problem we're
discussing here suggestions such as get
a better haircut go to the gym make
yourself presentable learn to be nice to
women learn learn to play by the rules
that these men revile you can get a
haircut you can go to the gym you can
learn how to cook you can do all kinds
of things to make yourself more
appealing you can sign up for and do
humanitarian work something I've talked
about on this channel before you can get
all kinds of life experience that'll
make you a more interesting
conversationalist when you talk to women
or will actually lead you to meet women
who have common interests those things
will lead to you have
a girlfriend but they'll never lead to
you having his girlfriend that
girlfriend and the pathology that
separates out the lunatic fringe of the
in cells from the vast majority of them
the vast majority of them are just
people who want to come online and blow
off steam who want to share with
like-minded people in a in a safe space
there's that term we want to share with
life like-minded people their sense of
frustration and disappointment with
their lives the lunatic fringe are
precisely the ones like Elliot Rodger
who are obsessively jealous and jealousy
as a treat is something that can never
be satisfied think through what this
suggestion would really entail you tell
these guys to go to the gym I I go to
the gym I'm not the best looking guy in
my gym I ever will be I'm totally at
peace with that the guys your address
dressing this advice to here are
precisely the guys who are deeply
disturbed about the fact that when they
go to the gym they feel ugly they go to
the gym they see beautiful women and
they see beautiful women who are there
with a boyfriend who is probably
physically superior to them probably
lifts more weight than them and so on
this is precisely the trigger for their
condition that they're struggling
against and that they're on the Internet
I know trying to get help with I guess
or negative way just demonstrating how
demented invented [ __ ] they're about it
the the the process of going to the gym
for precisely this personality type as I
say they would I think feel is
humiliating and this also gives you an
insight into what I'm saying it doesn't
matter even if these guys go on to have
a girlfriend then when they go to the
gym they're going to be presented with
exactly the chad's and stacey's of this
world exactly the people whom they they
feel frankly oppressed by I think to use
their language I think they would use
language that strong they feel oppressed
by the fact that this society has
winners and losers some of them are
chosen economically some of them are
chosen
genetically some they were chosen by
other factors that they rebel against
but effort several of them use the
actual phrasing of genetic superiority
and genetic inferiority they feel that
they're an inferior position and that
everything in society is biased against
them and that also nobody has any
sympathy for them and the gym is not a
place where unequal people are made
equal it's a place where our
inequalities are very much on display
and are very much exacerbated the strong
get stronger so to speak and the the
gaps between people hopefully get wider
and indeed were they be presented with
the reality of women they they find
unattainable this type of personality
type and this was actually in that the
so called manifesto of Elliot Rodger at
at Great Lengths
he talked about the fact that from
childhood before he'd been through
puberty he experienced extreme jealousy
he had jealousy over his friends when
they spent time with a different friend
he had jealousy over toys and then when
he got older what drove him to madness
and ultimately murder was jealousy for
the other people he saw on campus the
other people he saw around Los Angeles
who were having what he perceived to be
wonderful sex lives wonderful romantic
lives and that this was something he
felt he was being excluded from unfairly
right but it is jealousy not celibacy
that's the problem here and I think it
is jealousy in the strictest sense that
the psychologists are never going to
treat now this comes back to two points
I've discussed in this channel in
different videos in totally different
contexts the first is but two points
that are to me kind of significant
issues in practical philosophy
philosophy as it's applied to your
everyday life point one
I say again and again on this channel
that sympathy is most significant as an
analytical tool like I don't think we
should feel sympathy for other people
just for the sake of feeling sympathy
sympathy actually leads us to have kind
of useful insights useful an hour
into other people's lives now I'm not a
jealous character I actually do not feel
jealousy at all but let's say I go to
the gym and I chitchat with a couple and
the man is a bodybuilder and the female
member of the couple is a professional
model
okay so her hair and makeup is
immaculate and she's an extremely good
physical condition there are many
reasons why I do not feel jealousy but
one one kind of natural limit for me is
that I look at that couple and
sympathetically really this is sympathy
leading you into an office I can look at
that guy and I can see the kind of life
he has to lead to live with this woman
as his girlfriend hi Michael Chris just
made a video on my channel was uploaded
minutes ago I think oh you know she's
reading ancient Greek philosophy alright
that's not what his girlfriend is doing
with this time I meet this guy I meet
his girlfriend I look at her I look at
him I can imagine what their bathroom
looks like I can imagine just how many
hours of the day and how many hundreds
of dollars a month are going into the
collection of makeup and hair products
that are filling his bathroom I think my
girlfriend is one brush I mean mom is
not full of that kind of that kind of
stuff and my life is not cluttered up
with that kind of stuff because this is
the kind of girlfriend I have um you
know again this kind of simple childlike
and very very sharp jealousy it's not
sympathetically putting yourself into
the position of what it would be like if
that was your life if those are the
responsibilities you took on and I also
see that guy he doesn't have a choice to
sit down and read ancient Greek
philosophy either as many hours as he's
putting into the gym if his girlfriend
is a professional model or aspires to be
a model she may be putting in even more
and then there's a whole world of you
know entertainers and models and
auditions that he's going to be drawn
into and he's gonna be sympathetically
sitting there and talking to her when
she comes back from a bad audition when
she comes back from a day of photoshoots
there's this opens the door to a whole
world of problems and experiences I
don't want to have you
I mentioned offhand sorry this is on the
spectrum well it's it's quite different
many ways when I first met my ex-wife
she was uh she was working as a jazz
singer not as a full-time job but as a
kind of part-time job and she had a
certain level of success and she was
actually tempted to drop out of her PhD
to do that full time we were just
getting started the right ship her and I
and and I had to ask her seriously look
do you really want to spend your time
hanging around bars waiting for your
chance to go onstage and sing the same
song over and over again I was remember
I said smoky bars and she said every
single jazz club she ever sang and was
was non-smoking so these the kinds of
details the motive date I think of a
jazz club or a blues club as a place
full of cigarette smoke in in the 21st
century they're not you know for me so
she and I went on to get married and
then we went on to get divorced but
already you can imagine if you want to
be the boyfriend of a successful jazz
singer you're gonna spend a lot of time
hanging out in jazz clubs and lounges
and hearing with that and living that
life so sympathy as an analytical tool
and it doesn't matter so I'm just using
one example is a couple you meet at the
gym as a couple you meet in the
University campus whatever it is there
are many many reasons for me why I don't
experience jealousy but I think if you
are a psychologist sitting down with
someone like this type of extreme insel
character I think one of the things you
could try to talk through with them is
what I would call whole life cycle
analysis is to talk about what these
people's whole lives are like what is it
really that you envy or want to emulate
here and then to some extent talking
that through and even drawing it a
flowchart for it I think these guys are
gonna realize that maybe there are just
some bits and pieces they Envy but
there's actually a lot there that they
find unenviable or indeed based on their
own you know internet divorce there are
elements of it they find despicable and
laughable you know as as we all do this
is the stuff ultimately that that's
stand-up comedy is made of them there
are many stand-up comics who said they
dreamed all their lives of dating you
know models and singers wouldn't have
you and then once they do this becomes
part of their
their act another point of made in a
very very different context on this
channel I know one regular viewers will
remember it I've said that you know men
but it's women too but maybe men
especially need to escape in this
mentality of assigning women numbers a
scale of one to ten is very common of
thinking that women have a kind of
hierarchical value that one girl is a 10
and another girl is is a seven and
someone now there are many reasons for
this but I'm here just talking about in
terms of this site it's psychology of
the of the man of the male gaze the man
who's looking at these women and
thinking about them this way
part of my counter-argument is no every
single woman is either a ten or a zero
because every single woman either
interests you enough that you're willing
to embarrass yourself you're willing to
endanger whatever situation is you've
got going on you want to mess up your
life and you know what she is a
boyfriend you're maybe gonna offend her
and a Fender boyfriend by trying to
spark or I should try to initiate a
relationship and of course we have that
mentality the vast majority of women no
matter how attractive or no matter how
interesting fall into the zero category
right now again there are a couple of
reasons for me saying this one is this
massively cleans up massively simplifies
your life and the way you perceive and
interact with others like you know if
you go to the gym and someone's really
attractive what can't you just be happy
for them why can't you just look at the
person say wow they're putting in a lot
of effort and maybe the opposite maybe
you see someone the gym for putting it
up no effort they look right anyway why
can't you just be happy for them why do
you put them on a numbered scale where
you're gonna feel bad about who you are
or your girlfriend or you know where you
where you put yourself on this on this
ranking in terms of both how you see
yourself and the other there's something
profoundly psychologically unhealthy
there but above all else it also puts
you in the position of a passive viewer
as if real life is a TV show you're
evaluating care and you're not
if I meet someone at the gym and I think
they're let's say I think they're really
driving I also think they're really
intelligent guess what the fact that I'm
not willing to endanger my relationship
with my girlfriend or their relation
with their boyfriend or I'm not willing
to embarrass myself whatever all those
factors the fact that we don't have
anything in common or whatever the
interesting factors are for why I
wouldn't say break the polite silence
that we all live with as strangers in a
crowded city all of that means that
there are zero because nothing else
matters the relationships you have with
other people create the value that they
have in your life if you don't have a
meaningful relationship with them if you
don't try to create a meaningful
connection with them then there is zero
and conversely if there is some reason
why you do create a meaningful relations
hearing at an orphanage
you know I don't know you clean up
garbage on the side of the highway
together as part of your court-ordered
rehabilitation after you committed a
crime
what if it's forgotten common the fact
that you reach out to them and start to
create a meaningful relationship means
there are ten even if they're
conventionally unattractive even if when
you introduce them to your brother or
your mom or something elope
why did you pick her why did you guys
start up a relationship and you'll have
an answer you'll have an answer for why
this person means so much to you or why
it is you're in love with them or why
you at least tolerate their company
despite the fact that they're
conventionally unattractive so I think
those are two things that everyone from
the professional psychologists to the
the TV pundits can address but the
fundamental point here is one the fast
majority these guys in insole discussion
groups just blowing off steam they're
just looking for a sympathetic audience
for them to complain about their lives
which is a huge function of what the
internet exists sadly in 2018 but of the
people who aren't the lunatic fringe of
the people who are a danger to
themselves or others why they want to
subtract themselves from society or who
want to take revenge on society
the fundamental problem there is not
celibacy and the fundamental problem
there is not going to be solved by get a
haircut get a clean shirt go to the gym
the fundamental problem is jealousy and
I would say white Western
english-speaking culture does an
incredibly poor job of addressing
jealousy whether that's because of our
judeo-christian heritage where it used
to be addressed a totally different way
inside the church and now the framework
of church family says collapsed whether
that's because we're in a consumerist
society that values a certain kind of
superficial competition that some people
don't take seriously but other people
take way too seriously whatever those
factors are I think that all of us
whether we're dealing with our friends
or making YouTube videos or we're
working as psychologists or ultimately
even police men I think we have to start
to understand the ways in which a lot of
aberrant behavior are not so much rooted
in social problems such as inequalities
of physical beauty strength inequalities
of money but they're rooted in jealousy
which is a psychological fact but not
something exists in the pulpal world
jealousy attached to those inequalities
that's the weak point in the chain where
we can't address it where we can make a
difference